=== What this is
This is my simple attempt at an interoperability tool between Git
and Monticello. It was originally used for developing packages on both
GNU Smalltalk and Squeak/Pharo. However, turns out I (and some of my students)
mostly use it to have a copy of Squeak code in Git, so we can use Github/Trac/Redmine
for project management.

==== The Squeak Code
The project is "self-hosting" and has been almost right-away.
The Squeak side consists of a Git wrapper, a Package-to-Filesystem
mapper and a "Registry" class which keeps track of the settings
and Git-enabled packages in the system and is used as the command
interface for Gitocello. For GNU Smalltalk interoperability I have
included a GstPackageWriter class that creates a 'package.xml' file
from the Monticello package information.

==== The GNU Smalltalk "Code"
The GST side for now is only a post-receive hook written in bash
that creates a new Monticello package from the last commit and
only with the last commit message. This is mainly for simplicity,
but also because the project is not meant to be used in both
directions, but rather to support porting efforts and keeping ports
up-to-date.

=== Setup and Use
The idea is (for now), that the remote Git repository is in a
subfolder "git-repositories" with its name. The "post-receive"
hook is installed and thus when a push happens, the according
Monticello package is created in the default Mcz location
(which would be ../../ from the repository root, this is
'configurable' in the hook).

This remote repository has to be created by hand for now, and
the hook has to be enabled manually: I will automate this as soon
as I find the time.

For development in the Squeak image, one can yellow-click the package
in the Monticello browser and check "track with Git" to commit to the
default Git repository with each Monticello commit (per default under
package-cache/git-repositories/PACKAGE). For now, you have to
manually add the origin and push to it from time to time. This will
all be automated. Automatic conversion to Gnu Smalltalk syntax is
already in place, however.

Development from GNU Smalltalk is difficult right now: There is a script in
git-hooks that will create a Monticello package from the current code using
the conversion rules defined in the Gitocello package on gst-convert.

The conversion to Squeak using gst-convert needs some more testing though:
at least on my setup it ignores conversion rules in that direction. This might
not be all so bad, if one does an initial load of the package into a Squeak
environment, changes the necessary bits of code and uses the Monticello merge
for subsequent generated packages most conversion will be merged in just fine.

Also, gst-convert will never obsolete portable code anyway. Paolo Bonzini
helped me a lot with lightning fast reactions to my bug-reports on gst-convert,
and I think right now it will work just fine for the purposes of this project.

